.\"* libslirp: slirp as a library
.\" Copyright (C) 2014 Renzo Davoli. University of Bologna. <renzo@cs.unibo.it>
.\"
.\" This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\" License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
.\" version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" Lesser General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\" License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA

.TH libslirp 3 2016-11-16 "VirtualSquare" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
slirp_open, slirp_start, slirp_fd, slirp_send, slirp_recv, slirp_close \- slirp virtual network
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libslirp.h>
.br
.BI "SLIRP *slirp_open(uint32_t" flags ");"
.br
.BI "int slirp_start(SLIRP *" slirp ");"
.br
.BI "ssize_t slirp_send(SLIRP *" slirp ", const void  *" buf ", size_t " count ");"
.br
.BI "ssize_t slirp_recv(SLIRP *" slirp ", void *" buf ", size_t " count ");"
.br
.BI "int slirp_fd(SLIRP *" slirp ");"
.br
.BI "int slirp_close(SLIRP *" slirp ");"
.sp
These functions are provided by libslirp. Link with \fI-lslirp\fR.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Slirp is a TCP/IP emulator. Slirp generates a virtual network using standard user privileges (no need for root access
of CAP_NET_ADMIN). Programs using libslirp can send and receive packets using \fBslirp_send\fR and
\fBslirp_recv\fR as if they were connected to a NAT/Masquerading router.

\fBslirp_open\fR argument is a flag bit-field. Valid flags are:
.IP \(bu 2
SLIRP_IPV4: enable IPv4
.br
.IP \(bu 2
SLIRP_IPV6: enable IPv6
.br
.IP \(bu 2
SLIRP_RESTRICTED: restrict the netwrk virtualisation to the host only.
.PP
If flags is zero, slirp emulates IPv4 and it is not restricted.

Libslirp standard configuration is:
.IP \(bu 2
default route: 10.0.2.2
.br
.IP \(bu 2
DNS forward: 10.0.2.3
.br
.IP \(bu 2
DHCP addresses: 10.0.2.15 - 10.0.2.31
.br
.IP \(bu 2
default route ipv6: fe80::2
.br
.IP \(bu 2
DNS forward IPv6: fe80::3
.br
.IP \(bu 2
Virtual Router Advertisement daemon: active.
.PP

.SH RETURN VALUE
\fBslirp_open\fR returns the SLIRP pointer, otherwise, NULL is returned.
\fBslirp_send\fR and \fBslirp_recv\fR return the number of bytes sent or received, -1 in case of error.
\fBslirp_fd\fR returns a valid file descriptor which can be used to wait for incoming packets (using select or poll).
\fBslirp_start\fR and \fBslirp_close\fR return zero, -1 in case of error.
In case of failure, errno is set to indicate the type of error.

.SH SEE ALSO
libslirpfwd(3),
libslirpcfg(3)
.SH BUGS
Bug reports should be addressed to <info@virtualsquare.org>
.SH AUTHOR
Renzo Davoli <renzo@cs.unibo.it>: the idea of slirp is by Danny
Gasparovski. This implementation of slirp has been forked from Qemu.
Please refer to the LICENSE file in the source tree main directory for information about the license.
