.\"* libslirp: slirp as a library
.\" Copyright (C) 2014 Renzo Davoli. University of Bologna. <renzo@cs.unibo.it>
.\"
.\" This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\" License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
.\" version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" Lesser General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\" License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA

.TH libslirpcfg 3 2016-11-16 "VirtualSquare" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
slirp_set_addr, slirp_set_addr6, slirp_set_hostname, slirp_set_tftppath, slirp_set_bootfile,
	slirp_set_dhcp, slirp_set_dnsaddr, slirp_set_dnsaddr6, slirp_set_vdnssearch
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <libslirp.h>
.br
.BI "int slirp_set_addr(SLIRP *slirp, struct in_addr vhost, int prefix);
.br
.BI "int slirp_set_addr6(SLIRP *slirp, struct in6_addr vhost6, int prefix);
.br
.BI "int slirp_set_hostname(SLIRP *slirp, const char *vhostname);
.br
.BI "int slirp_set_tftppath(SLIRP *slirp, const char *tftp_path);
.br
.BI "int slirp_set_bootfile(SLIRP *slirp, const char *bootfile);
.br
.BI "int slirp_set_dhcp(SLIRP *slirp, struct in_addr vdhcp_start);
.br
.BI "int slirp_set_dnsaddr(SLIRP *slirp, struct in_addr vnameserver);
.br
.BI "int slirp_set_dnsaddr6(SLIRP *slirp, struct in6_addr vnameserver6);
.br
.BI "int slirp_set_vdnssearch(SLIRP *slirp, char **vdnssearch);

These functions are provided by libslirp. Link with \fI-lslirp\fR.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Slirp, see liblirp(3), is a TCP/IP emulator. Slirp generates a virtual network using standard user privileges (no need for root access
of CAP_NET_ADMIN).
These functions configure various parameters of slirp (overriding the default values)
and must be called after \fBslirp_open\fR and before \fBslirp_start\fR.

\fBslirp_set_addr\fR sets the IPv4 address and prefix of slirp in the virtual network.

\fBslirp_set_addr6\fR sets the IPv6 address and prefix of slirp in the virtual network.

\fBslirp_set_hostname\fR sets the hostname (for bootp).

\fBslirp_set_tftppath\fR sets the path of the directory shared if the ftfp service is enabled.

\fBslirp_set_bootfile\fR sets the bootfile (for bootp).

\fBslirp_set_dhcp\fR sets the lowest address assigned by the dhcp service.

\fBslirp_set_dnsaddr\fR sets the (virtual) IPv4 address for DNS forwarding.

\fBslirp_set_dnsaddr6\fR sets the (virtual) IPv6 address for DNS forwarding.

\fBslirp_set_vdnssearch\fR sets the dns search path (list of domains) advertised by dhcp.

.SH RETURN VALUE
All these functions return 0 in case of success, -1 otherwise.

.SH SEE ALSO
libslirp(3),
.SH BUGS

Bug reports should be addressed to <info@virtualsquare.org>
.SH AUTHOR
Renzo Davoli <renzo@cs.unibo.it>: the idea of slirp is by Danny
Gasparovski. This implementation of slirp has been forked from Qemu.
Please refer to the LICENSE file in the source tree main directory for information about the license.
